What game design is not

Types of design
	World design
	System design
	Content design
	Game writing
	Level design
	User Interface
	
What is a game?
	Activity with rules.
		A form of play often but not always involving conflict, either with other players, with the game itself or with randomness/fate/luck
		Most games have goals, some don't (sims)
		Most games have defined start and end points, but not all (D&D and WoW)
		Most games involve decision making on the part of the player, but not all (chutes and ladders, candy land)
		A video game is a game that uses a digital video screen of some kind
What is the core of a game 
	the single thing gameplay is about
	The single experience the designer is trying to convey
	Ratchet and clank series are about blowing stuff up.
	Go is about territorial acquisition.
	
	Core statements are usually written to reflect the core mechanic and sum up what the game is about
		"The game is about"
		"The game is the experience of being..."
		"The game teaches..."
		"The game simulates the experience of..."
	
	Core dynamics
		Territorial Acquisition (Risk, carcassone, go)
		Prediction (roulette, rock-paper-scissors)
		Spatial Reasoning (connect four, tic-tac-toe)
		Survival (zombicide, sometimes a secondary objective)
		Destruction (sometimes PvP, FPS games)
		Building (Settlers of catan, sim city, RPGs)
		Collection (TCG, magic, dominion, casual games, platformers)
		Chasing/Evading (pac man, contact sports)
		Trading (Settlers of catan, Animal crossing and pokemon)
		Race to the End (Often used in children's games)

Where do ideas come from?
	Playing lots of games
	Networking with other designers
	Everywhere! (movies, books, anime)
	
Common terms
	Feature list
	Brainstorming
	Prototype
	Balance
	Mechanics
	Dynamics
	System
	Avatar
	Playtesting

Common terms (digital game design usually)
	Platform
	Concept doc - 1-3 pages that provides high level overview of proposed game.
		Paragraph explaining the theme, demographic breakdown, target audience, genre and intended platforms. 
		Bullet-point feature list and feature list breakout that explains each of the features in more detail
		http://designgames.wordpress.com
	Proposal - 5-20 pages that gives more in-depth view.  Includes budget and time estimations, competitive analysis and expansion plans.  Typically includes mockups or conept art
		http://designgames.wordpress.com
	Pitch - Elevator pitch
	Design document (A livign document that is the bible)
	Bugs
	Engine
	Alpha
	Beta
	Gold
	Game Jam
	Milestone
	
Common terms (non-digital)
	Game Bits
	Card Game
	Board Game
	Tile Game
	Dice Game

Approaches to game design (everone has their own approach)
	Blue-sky
	Slow boil (theme and settnig given)
	mechanic driven (ie: katamari damacy)
	MDA - mechanics dynamics aesthetics
		Journey, the fun and rules and dynamics
	IP - Intellectual property (football and movies)
	Story - Tom clancy
	Research - flOw by Jenova, researching the concept of flow and dynamic difficulty

Iterative Game Design
	Iteration is not just doing 'whatever' and then trying more stuff until something shows up, this leads to just more luck based design
	You should start with some design goals, no matter what (not a clean slate)
		Get some design goals that aren't changeable
		Marry these design goals with ones that are
	It's ok if your first pass is horribly flawed
	Playtesting is SUPER important (I playtest almost too much)
	Peer review is critical, as you will get more innovation by involving others.
	Compared to Up-front design
		Take an existing model, and have slight variations upon it
	1. Prototype
		Make a prototype rapidly
	2. Playtest
		Partial or full
	3. Revise
		Fortify weaknesses and build on strengths
	4. Repeat
		Go back to the prototype and start the next iteration

Constraints on Game design (Digital)
	Examples:
		Approximate budget
		Desired time frame
		Desired Platform (consoles, multiplayer console, phone)
	Other questions
		What is the target auidence
		Desired rating (ESRB)
		Desired genre or category
		Any features you'd like to see
Non digital constraints
	Cost to manufacture per unit
	Physical dimensions (board, tabletop, small/large pieces)
	Publisher
	Timing
			
Analog vs Digital prototyping

The publisher/developer cycle; 
	How does iterative game design play into the publisher/developer cycle
	Real world examples of bethesda and control schemes
	Cutting features to meet milestones

“Perfect” Gameplay vs “Great” gameplay;
	We would like to make the perfect game, but that would take forever
	How can you be happy with 'just' a 'great' game?
	
Analog prototype with class as a whole
	modding Diablo or Mario Kart (RPG) 
		How do you turn Diablo into a board/analog game

Extra credit, who can come up with the best RTS in the brief time allotted
	modding Starcraft/Warcraft III (RTS)
		Custom maps
		Tower defense
		Hero RPG game types
	Make these into a board game

Overcoming designer's block
	Make a resource limited or unlimited
	Introduce more interaction, allowing players to affect one another
	Mess with the play order
	Kill a rule
	Use a rule of two (double or halve a resource)
Analog game creation in class with cards/dice/tokens
	Pick a subject/theme - conflict
	
	The rules; these need only be sketchy and in a rough format, but should include:
	o  The game's title (and subtitle)
	o  Your name
	o  A brief introductory paragraph as to what the game is about (i.e., the topic it covers)
	o  The sequence of play
	o  An explanation about how the components work together (i.e., what the unit values mean, how the terrain works, etc.)
	o  The core systems and mechanics as briefly explained rules

modding UDK
	Everything!