weapons must be played before using. permanent.
	bows - 2 
		- melee weapon 1d6
		- ranged : discard a stick to use as ranged.
	
	daggers - 3 
		+1 damage

	swords - 1 
		- melee weapon
		+3 damage

	spear - 2 
		- melee weapon
		+ 2 damage

	stick - 10 in deck
		- melee weapon
		- after melee attack with stick, roll d20 - less than 10 discard stick


items
	
	rations : use
		- heal 5 hp.

	poison : use 
		- during attack phase:
			- if attack is successful, place this card infront of targeted player
			- if unsuccessful - discard this card.
		- use when a player uses a ration:
			- discard that ration, may not take any other actions this turn.
		- if given to another player during p2p phase and accepted
			- place this card infront of targeted player.
		debuffed: player takes an additional 1 damage when resolving the hunger meter.
			-discard a ration and two other cards to discard this card.

events
	new day: increase the hunger meter by 1.
	
	release dogs: the last half of the players (rounded up) to go this round suffer 4 damage unless they pass an evasion check (15)
	
	cornicopia - draw cards from the sponsor deck equal to the number of players left.
		- each person announces if they are going to the cornicopia event based on turn order.
		- players choose to:
			- attack other players, melee combat only
			- leave
			- agree to distribute the loot in any way the players left choose to.


characters
	katniss everdeen - archer - starts with bow.
		sticks on play field do not count towards card count
		if you gain an stick during your turn draw another sponsor card.
	
	peeta mellark - baker - starts with 2 rations.
		- rations heal an additional 2 hp.
		- +2 to evasion rolls
	
	marvel - spear - starting weapon spear
		throw spear: treat spear as ranged weapon. 
			- if player is not killed, roll d20 - < 10 discard spear.

	glimmer - carreer tribute 
		starts with 1 rations and random weapon.
		+1 damage

	cato - weapon master - starts game with any weapon.
	
	clove - starts with knife.
		abilities:
			discard 2 cards to look through the sponsor deck for a knife.
				shuffle sponsor deck afterwards.
			throw knife: treat knives as ranged weapon
				if target is not killed, roll d20:  < 10 discard knife	
			
	foxface - theif
		+2 to scouting rolls.
		- 2 attack
		on player interaction, may steal a card at random.
	
	rue - climber - starts with 2 additional rations.
		special: natural climber
			+1 to scouting rolls
			does not engage in melee combat.
			player is not in pool for release dogs event.

	thresh - physical prowess: 25 hp
			+2 to all damage rolls.
			when determing turn order, treat player as if he has 2 fewer cards.
			counter attacks : when a player damages you in melee combat, you may counter attack.
	

rules:

begining the game:
	choose characters, one per player.
	distribute items according to character cards
	seperate event cards, and sponsor cards, shuffle them into seperate decks.

player with fewest cards goes first (all cards in hand and in play under character count), second fewest second...
	in the event of a tie, roll to determine turn order.

before the first players turn: 
	- reveal and resolve the top card of the event deck.
	- damage each player by amount of tokens on the hunger card


players take 3 actions per turn:
	roll to scout.
	use characters special ability.
	play a card.
	at the end of their turn, players may discard any number of cards.

scout - players roll a d20
	12 or higher - draw from the sponsor deck
	16 or higher - player to player interaction (or draw sponsor card)
		
p2p - players may attack another player 
	or may give an item face down to another player

attacking : requires weapon
	ranged attacks: may not be counter attacked.
		attacker : d6 damage + modifiers
		defender : d20 evasion check (10 passes)
	
	melee combat:
		attacker : 1d6 damage + modifiers
		defender : d20 evasion check (15 passes) on pass may end the combat or counter attack.
		
	


